

This a model from the article:  
**A thermodynamic model of the cardiac sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic Ca(2+) (SERCA) pump.**   
Tran K, Smith NP, Loiselle DS, Crampin EJ. _Biophys J_ 2009 Mar
4;96(5):2029-42 [19254563](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19254563) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We present a biophysically based kinetic model of the cardiac SERCA pump that
consolidates a range of experimental data into a consistent and
thermodynamically constrained framework. The SERCA model consists of a number
of sub-states with partial reactions that are sensitive to Ca(2+) and pH, and
to the metabolites MgATP, MgADP, and Pi. Optimization of model parameters to
fit experimental data favors a fully cooperative Ca(2+)-binding mechanism and
predicts a Ca(2+)/H(+) counter-transport stoichiometry of 2. Moreover, the
order of binding of the partial reactions, particularly the binding of MgATP,
proves to be a strong determinant of the ability of the model to fit the data.
A thermodynamic investigation of the model indicates that the binding of MgATP
has a large inhibitory effect on the maximal reverse rate of the pump. The
model is suitable for integrating into whole-cell models of cardiac
electrophysiology and Ca(2+) dynamics to simulate the effects on the cell of
compromised metabolism arising in ischemia and hypoxia.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Tran K, Smith NP, Loiselle DS, Crampin EJ. (2009)
- version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/cc1db86dfd7838194138b224f586bfb4)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Kenneth Tran**   
k.tran@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

